Now that you have a self-contained JAR file that
represents your application in standalone mode,
you're ready to deploy it and run it on a cloud platform.
Common cloud platforms that Spring Boot works with are Cloud Foundry,
Heroku, Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services,
and Microsoft's Azure.
Each of these platforms require setting up different configuration files so the
platform knows how to deploy it on its own infrastructure.
Even though those details might differ,
the standalone JAR artifact you create does not.
If you want to give yourself even more flexibility with deployments,
you can Dockerize your application.
Most all cloud platforms support Docker.
You might ask,
why would I Dockerize my app if the platform
supports deploying a JAR file natively?
There are a few reasons.
Clustering and portability are just simply two of them.
If your app is Dockerize,
you can spin up many instances quickly using tools
like Docker Compose or Kubernetes.
Finally, if you do decide to use a cloud offering,
a few things to keep in mind, first,
logging can be difficult to track down and use depending on the cloud.
It may be a good idea to utilize a centralized logging service.
Connecting to your database or other cloud service,
like a Redis queue,
may require specific handling that can be different than what we covered in
the Spring Boot configuration section of this course.
Getting all of your services to talk to one another can
also be a firewall or a security headache.
Since you're in the cloud and things are public,
you need to deal with network traffic and communication appropriately.
Coming up next, we'll check out how to deploy our application to the Heroku cloud.